# Relaxation of the residual Stresses produced by plastic deformation

Релаксация остаточных напряжений вызванных пластическими деформациями

### Библиография
```
@article{1_33_Tadi_2011,
title={Relaxation of the residual Stresses produced by plastic deformation},
journal={Materiali in tehnologije},
author={Tadi, N},
year={2011},
volume={45},
number={5},
pages={467--475},
language={en},
}
```

## Полезные тезисы:
### [[1.2.1 Введение в напряжения]]
####  О напряжениях
The technological processes of plastic deformation are characterized by the presence of different non-homogeneities that cause non-homogeneous deformation. The consequence of non-homogeneous deformation is the inevitable occurrence of residual stresses, which are permanently retained in metal products. The residual stresses are spatially balanced, but they are also latently unstable. In case of an uncontrolled disturbance of their balance in further treatments and exploitation, permanent changes of the shape and dimensions of metal elements are possible. The typical examples are the bending and distortion of cold-rolled strips and pressed profiles, bending, distortion and changes in diameter of drawn bars and wires, etc. Furthermore, the total stress of the elements exposed to an external load, due to the superposition of the residual stresses, can reach the limit value and cause damage or reduce the reliability of the structural elements. Therefore, the residual stresses need to be relaxed, i.e., completely removed or
transformed to a more appropriate form that cannot cause permanent consequences. For the performance and control of the relaxation process it is necessary to know the values of the stress, their distribution within the element and the changes in the relaxation  rocesses.

### [[1.4.1 Обзор Методов]]
#### Описание методов
The values of the residual stresses were obtained by a measurement that had to be adapted to the shape of the element, the stress condition and the material condition.
The typical methods for the determination of residual stresses are destructive (mechanical) and non-destructive. The mechanical methods are based on the
destruction of the stress balance and the measurement of the elastic effects. In rolled plates and strips the procedure consists of the removal of metal layers from
one side, while in bars it consists of longitudinal cutting. Both procedures are based on the deflection method, i.e., on the determination of the residual stresses on the basis of measurements of an elastic bend. The model of stress distribution in the cross-section
can also be performed on the basis of a deflection using the equivalent moment load for balanced residual stresses 7,10–15. Typical non-destructive methods are based
on the measurements of physical constants of the material in the presence of residual stresses, such as measurement of the changes of diffraction properties of the waves in the presence of residual stresses (e.g., x-ray)

### [[1.2.3 Природа напряжений]]
#### О релаксации
The most important processes that cause complete or partial relaxation of the residual stresses can be thermal or mechanical. The thermal processes consist of heating at the temperatures necessary for active thermal processes for the relaxation of residual stresses (e.g., low-temperature tempering) The mechanical processes imply a limited plastic deformation for the relaxation of residual stresses, mostly by axial stress acting or bending (cyclic bending)

### [[1.2.3 Природа напряжений]]
#### Что приводит к релаксации
– the high instability of the residual stresses in thermal and mechanical processes with similar effects and shape of the change curve;
– the projected level of relaxation of residual stresses can be achieved with sufficient precision in thermal process by optimum temperature choice and annealing time in accordance with the function which describes the kinetics of thermal processes;
– in mechanical process by axial tension, the complete relaxation of the stress appears at low values of the plastic deformation, and the differences that occur in cold-rolled strips and drawn bars appear as a consequence of the model of the balance of residual stresses;
– the machine scraping of drawn bars was followed by the relaxation and redistribution of residual stresses. The suggested model of redistribution gives a real picture of made changes;
– the mechanical process by cyclic bending of the drawn bars was followed by the reduction of tensile residual stresses and their transformation into the compression stresses.
_Значыць што даже небольшая пластка х...де пользу обработки_


## Статусы
#transfered_from_excel 
#type_linkable 
#bibliography_added
#processed_for_meta
