# Magnetic adaptive testing of non-magnetic properties of ferromagnetic materials

Адаптивный магнитный контроль немагнитных свойств ферромагнитных материалов

### Библиография
```
@article{3_0_Tomas_2004,
title={Magnetic Adaptive Testing of Non-magnetic Properties of Ferromagnetic Materials},
volume={54},
ISSN={0011-4626, 1572-9486},
DOI={[10.1007/s10582-004-0022-6](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10582-004-0022-6)},
number={S4},
journal={Czechoslovak Journal of Physics},
author={Tomáš, I.},
year={2004},
month={Dec},
pages={23–26},
language={en}
}
```

## Полезные тезисы:

#### Введение в магнитные методы
It is very well known for decades that magnetization processes of ferromagnetic materials are modified if the non-magnetic material properties (e.g. structure, chemical composition, density and type of defects, etc.) are varied. The presently existing understanding of the physics of ferromagnetic materials is now fairly able to describe links between their structural and magnetic features, but even long time before this level of understanding was established, empirically observed relations were used in technical practice. These early applications of magnetic indication of mechanical qualities of the construction materials (mainly of steel and cast iron in industrial use) developed into a recognized branch of magnetic non-destructive testing (NDT). The magnetic NDT has a number of attractive attributes (low expenses, experimental simplicity, in-¯eld applicability,. . . ) and several familiar magnetic parameters like coercivity, Hc, remanent induction, Br, initial and maximum permeability, ¹in, and ¹max, are often routinely used for the purpose, see e.g. Based on this experience a question turns up, namely, what magnetic parameter is the optimum indicator of a concrete investigated property variation in the concrete investigated material? Is it always one of the traditional magnetic parameters listed above? Or could it be another one, perhaps a poor descriptor of the
material magnetic features but a surprisingly suitable descriptor of the material structural degradation? Which magnetic experimental data, out of all the available ones, can be optimally adapted for description of a concrete investigated task?

#### Метод магнитного адаптивного контроля
#### Чувствительность диф. магн. проницаемости к уровню прокатки
Magnetic Adaptive Testing (MAT) is a way of optimization of indirect exper-
imental measurement of non-magnetic properties of ferromagnetic materials by
means of advanced evaluation of systematically recorded pools of their complex
magnetic data.
Typically, MAT can be applied as a non-destructive method of experimental
measurement and data evaluation, which collects complex families of magnetic
hysteresis loops on a reference series of samples, that differ from one another by a
sequential degradation of a characteristic quality feature of the material. Using a
semi-automatic algorithm, MAT is then able to pick up just those data that are the
most sensitive, the most stable and the most experimentally ones for the specific
task. These optimum data on the reference series of the samples are presented in
the shape of an optimum degradation function, which will later serve as a calibra-
tion function at measurement of any unknown sample of the same material and the
same way of degradation.

in lab they use magneto-inductive Permeameter

MAT brought very satisfactory results in detection of structural variation of ferromagnetic steel degraded by plastic deformation, currently mechanically loaded, and thermally processed. It was successfully applied for the detection of ferromagnetic phase induced in austenitic steel by plastic deformation, and it showed rather promising indications in quality check-up of cast iron. A method very similar to MAT, also based on investigation of the minor loop families, was used for description of the dislocation-density variation in
pure iron after plastic deformation, and the same authors currently investigate efficiency of the method for testing radiation embrittlement of steel samples.



### Статусы
#transfered_from_excel 
#type_linkable
#bibliography_added
#processed_for_meta
