# Complex magnetic investigation of ferritic stainless steel

Комплексное магнитное исследование ферритных магнитных сталей

### Библиография
```
@article{3_2_Meszaros_2005,
title={Complex Magnetic Investigation of Ferritic Stainless Steel},
volume={473–474},
ISSN={1662-9752},
DOI={[10.4028/www.scientific.net/MSF.473-474.231](https://doi.org/10.4028/www.scientific.net/MSF.473-474.231)},
journal={Materials Science Forum},
author={Mészáros, István},
year={2005},
month={Jan},
pages={231–236},
language={en}
}
```

## Полезные тезисы:

#### Введение в баркгаузен шум, его связь с МАТ
In a ferromagnetic material, Barkhausen noise (BN) is generated by the discontinuous movement of irreversible domains walls. This movement can be induced by applying a time varying magnetic field across the sample. This noise can be detected in the form of voltage pulses which are induced in a coil placed near the surface of the material. Magnetic Barkhausen noise (MBN) results from the irreversible displacement of domain walls. The applied mechanical stresses can increase the magnetic anisotropy of the material and can modify the domain wall mobility. Therefore, mechanical stresses can affect the magnetic Barkhausen noise.
Barkhausen noise can also be affected by pinning sites which act as barriers to domain
movement. Pinning sites are attributed to various physical parameters such as grain boundaries, voids, inclusions and dislocations. Amongst the wide range of techniques available for NDT evaluation of stresses, magnetic Barkhausen noise measurement has become very popular for stress analysis. Macroscopic magnetic properties such as differential permeability are well known to be stress-dependent. The stress dependence of differential permeability carries through to micro-scale effects to cause MBN also to be stress-dependent. For detailed structural investigation of stainless steels several sophisticated electron microscopic techniques are available but these techniques require destructive specimen preparation in contrast to the magnetic methods.

#### Чувствительность БШ к уровню пластики
Dependence of MBN and coercivity on percentage plastic strain
Dependence of hardness and coercivity on percentage plastic strain
Dependence of the inverse of MBN and coercivity on Vickers hardness

The 1/MBN and HC values were
found to be inversely proportional to hardness. In both the plastically strained and heat-treated
samples, the magnetic Barkhausen noise (MBN) measurement and the magnetic parameters derived
from hysteresis loop are seen to be comparable


### Статусы
#transfered_from_excel 
#type_linkable
#bibliography_added
#processed_for_meta
